<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title></title><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/epub-stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
  <div id="h2-30">
    <h1>Chapter 30<br/>Jerome</h1>
  </div>
</header>
<p><br/></p>
            <p class="texttop"><span class="dropcap">E</span>very so often a soul is born that is destined to stand head and shoulders above the others of his or her time. Such a life is so exceedingly rare that if one were able to look across 10,000 universes each nurturing billions of people there might be one or two such people. Leonardo da Vinci was the nearest Hector's universe had come to such a polymath. Da Vinci mastered art, science, mechanics among a long list of challenging disciplines. He was not only a genius in one field like Albert Einstein, nor was Da Vinci just &#8220;fairly good&#8221; at a lot of things, he was a genius in multiple, diverse fields. His mind was simply not constrained like that of everyone else.</p>
            <p>Jerome was born to a happy, but poor couple on a small island in the Caribbean. Jerome was destined to change his universe and many others.</p>
    <p class="centered">~~~~~~~~~~~~~~</p>
            <h2>Childhood</h2>
            <p>Even when new, the tiny craft was not meant for waves like these. In a good storm the waves come from the same direction, even if they are larger than normal a ship can be directed into the wave with the bow splitting the bulk of a wave's power in half pushing the boat up and leaving it to then crash down into the trough between crests. Boats are designed to battle that sort of storm.</p>
            <p>Jerome's father had two problems. The first problem was his boat. The second problem was the waves. He had set to sea with Jerome, then age 7 and his other son Alex, age 5. The day had started clear and calm. Alex was meant to be with his mother that day but had pleaded desperately to join his father and brother on the days work of fishing. Alex was at the age where &#8220;man stuff&#8221; was starting to be more appealing than following his mother around as the worked at the market, selling the catch and a few spare vegetables from the family garden.</p>
            <p>The fishing boat was a hand-me-down. However, no one in the small Caribbean village nestled around an idyllic cove with sandy beach and coconut palms could remember exaclty who had handed it down to Jerome's father. The boat had simply always around. Most of the paint had long ago flaked away but most of the islanders agreed that it had probably been blue at one point. Such important debates often filled the evenings as the locals sat around beach as the sun set over their communal steel drum which had been cut in half to form a ramshackle BBQ. The boat's hull was a ecosystem of its own carrying all manner of sea creatures along with any jetsam and flotsam the craft had come across over the years. On a good day, the motor would start after a few minutes and the boat would deliver Jerome's father safely to and from the plentiful fishing of the reef just a mile or so form the cove. This was not going to be a good day.</p>
            <p>&#8220;What makes waves?&#8221; Alex asked.</p>
            <p>Jerome's father answered, &#8220;the moon makes them&#8221; and continued pulling in the net with a modest catch.</p>
            <p>&#8220;How does the moon make waves?&#8221; said Alex.</p>
            <p>Jerome, looked at the sea which at this point was bouncy, but far from violent. He put all of his 7 years of life experience to bear on figuring out an answer to satisfy his little brother's curiosity. After a few minutes Jerome said, &#8220;I reckon that it must be the wind that makes waves, have you seen little waves when you blow across the top of a bowl of mom's soup to cool it down? Imagine wind like that blowing for miles and miles across the ocean. That would make pretty big waves.&#8221;</p>
            <p>Jerome's father looked up and grinned. &#8220;There you go again, I must admit, your wind theory sounds logical. How do you always manage to figure stuff out?&#8221;</p>
            <p>&#8220;What about the moon?&#8221; said Alex.</p>
            <p>&#8220;Yeah, I'm sure I've heard the moon has something to do with waves.&#8221; Said their father.</p>
            <p>Once again, Jerome took a few minutes staring at the sea while more fish was hauled aboard. Finally, he spoke, &#8220;It must be that the moon controls the tides, not waves. Tides are cyclic just like the moon. If the earth has enough gravity to hold us and the water on earth I suppose the moon could have enough gravity to pull at the water a little. Combine that with the spinning of the earth and the moon circling around us and you have tides.&#8221;</p>
            <p>&#8220;Did they teach you that at school?&#8221; asked is dad.</p>
            <p>&#8220;No, it just makes sense doesn't it.&#8221; answered Jerome.</p>
            <p>Jerome's father shook his head in admiration. &#8220;You'll go far my boy, with that brain of yours.&#8221;</p>
            <p>While they had been talking and fishing the weather was changing. The waves altered their personality becoming both angry and random. They were a good hour from the safety of land but hauled up the net one last time and pointed the little ship toward the cove.</p>
            <p>The waves smashed the boat from port, then from starboard. They lifted and threw the craft up and down, left to right and right to left. The wind had picked up hurling itself with such a force powerful enough on its own to tip the boat 45 degrees off vertical. Jerome and Alex clung to the mast as if their lives depended on it. Their lives did depend on it. Their father pushed the small motor as hard as he could but most of the time he heard the propeller spinning uselessly in the air.</p>
            <p>In one universe, the wind and waves conspired the timing of their blows to shatter the boat and pull boys beneath the water. It was this universe, one without Jerome in which Hector created a modulator and, with his family, entered the multi-verse.</p>
            <p>Another universe was spawned in which the trio managed to make port, to live and tell the tale of the day the sea turned against them. Alex could brag to his friends that he, his dad and brother had beaten the odds and survived.</p>
    <p class="centered">~~~~~~~~~~~~~~</p>
            <p>Jerome grew up in his small Caribbean island home with two distinct channels of background noise. On the one hand, he learned the joys of the sun, sea, beaches, and fresh seafood BBQs on the sand. His family were poor, but his father had a knack for two things, catching fish and cooking them. At least once a week Jerome would help his father drag their beat up old oil drum down to the beach. Friends and neighbours would bring firewood and rum. Soon the whole beach was a seafood party. As the sun set, Jerome could often be found staring out at the glowing sea wondering who might be staring back toward him from all the other beaches across the Atlantic from West Africa, South America, North America, Greenland, Iceland, to Western Europe and beyond. All that separated Jerome from like-minded curious children on those many shores were the waters of the Atlantic. He felt he ought to be able to communicate with them as easily as he could with the friends near him. He had read that whales can send signals for hundreds of miles through the water, surely humans could do something similar. The sea and connections to distant people was one channel that would take him years to master.</p>
            <p>The second channel of background music to Jerome's life was the world news. The family T.V. was usually broken in one way or another, but an old radio hung from a nail in the family shack. Some would call the room in which it hung the kitchen, but to them it was known simply as, the room. The main bulk of family life happened in that room, cooking, eating, talking, fighting, homework and more often than not the radio provided a constant flow of Reggae music, sports and news updates.</p>
            <p>The news seemed to Jerome as a continuous flow of armed warfare, adults arguing with other adults about disagreements between their grandfathers and troubles caused by some people's views on religions. Through the predominantly happy years of Jerome's childhood, the ongoing news updates from that battered radio hanging off a nail created a pattern in the neurons of Jerome's brain. Where memories of fishing with his father, chasing his little brother on the beach or chatting with his mother long into the night left delicate footprints across his brain, the news carved a scar through his psyche.</p>
    <p class="centered">~~~~~~~~~~~~~~</p>
            <h2>At Cambridge</h2>
            <p>Jerome's island had strong links with the British Commonwealth. Through these, young Jerome was identified by the local education system and put forward as a candidate for a scholarship. At the age of 16, being a polymath genius, Jerome took up a full scholarship offer at Cambridge University's Cavendish Laboratory. Although officially entered into the Battcock Centre for Experimental Astrophysics, he would be found in just about any lecture theatre or laboratory in any of the city's universities.</p>
            <p>His tutors were not surprised at the wide range of interests taken by their star pupil, but they were surprised when political and social science began to receive equal attention as geology, oceanography, mathematics, physics and the more traditional hard sciences.</p>
            <p>To say the 16-year-old, 6'5&#8221; tall Afro-Caribbean Jerome stood out at Cambridge is an understatement. He suffered from being different from the predominantly British, white, upper-class Oxbridge student. He felt the need to constantly to prove that despite his youth and sing-song island accent he deserved a free place in one of the world's foremost institutes of higher learning.</p>
            <p>Jerome very quickly learned that he had entered a highly competitive environment. At home, he had never been challenged, physically or mentally. The islanders recognized that Jerome was a talent to be appreciated and proud of. At Cambridge University, he was a threat to the norm. Jerome's instinct was not to fight back when challenged but to accept that he might be wrong, and others were likely older and wiser.</p>
            <p>After a whirlwind five years at Cambridge, Jerome graduated with two doctorate degrees. He spent the next two years establishing a laboratory of advanced earth sciences on his home island in the Caribbean. At first it was difficult to attract the best minds away from the current centres of science in England, China and the United States. However, as the scientific papers and stories of the enchanting lifestyle began to flow out from the institute, accolades, awards, and the top tier scientists began to flow in.</p>
            <p>Then something happened. The world was about to change, and Jerome's institute would become more significant than even its founder might have dreamed.</p>
    <p class="centered">~~~~~~~~~~~~~~</p>
            <p>Walking the beach one evening, Jerome heard the low-fi crackling of a radio from a shack just off the beach. He could not distinguish the words, but the cadence had the makings of a news update. It would probably be some more stories of the recent round of battles in the Middle-East or South America. The normal news flow which he had digested all though his youth then halted. Jerome could still not distinguish any of the words, but the newsreader had taken on an altogether more urgent pace - a special report or urgent bulletin of some sort assumed Jerome.</p>
            <p>Upon his return to his small home near the institute, he was met by a dozen of his top scientists and managers. The reason for the change in the news soon became clear.</p>
            <p>At 100km long and over 500km deep in places, Indonesia's Lake Toba is the largest volcanic lake on earth. It was created out of the remnants of the planet's most recent super-volcano eruption which shook South-East Asia only 69,000 years ago. The eruptions are thought to have triggered a volcanic winter in which the higher latitudes saw a decrease in average temperatures of 15 degrees C for hundreds or thousands of years. All of South-East Asia was covered in volcanic ash causing a dramatic extinction event. The human race itself declined to only 10,000 individuals as the volcanic havoc impacted Africa and India. The population bottleneck led to a reduction in genetic variation in humans that can be seen to this day.</p>
            <p>This day had seen a triple geological event not known for approximately 69,000 years. Fifty miles to the North of Lake Toba another undersea landslide set off a tsunami racing toward the banks of Malasia and Sumatra, which surround the Malacca Strait. At almost the same time, a pair of volcanoes to the south of Toba became active after having rested for tens of thousands of years.</p>
            <p>Isolated geological events such events were becoming more and more frequent occurrences around Indonesia but having three at the same time was as clear an indication there could be that the entire region was primed to explode. A globe threatening super-volcano eruption was threatening.</p>
            <p>Jerome's brain jumped into action; synapses fired, minute chemical changes altered the delicate balances somehow pulling up memories, facts and that most miraculous of human powers creativity. Where most people would see an insurmountable problem, how to stop a super-volcano, Jerome conjured up an opportunity to not only save the planet from its own destructive forces but at the same time focus the violent nature of mankind on something other than itself.</p>
    <p class="centered">~~~~~~~~~~~~~~</p>
            <p>The building of the Egyptian pyramids constructed two and a half thousand years before Christ by up to 100,000 people would be a tiny undertaking compared with what Jerome had in mind. The Great wall of China was built over thousands of years and is nearly half the length of the circumference of the earth at the equator. It too would be a minor project compared to Jerome's plan for the volcanism of South East Asia.</p>
            <p>Jerome decided early that the bigger the undertaking, the better. He knew the forces within the planet and especially in the area of a super-volcano were beyond anything that mankind had ever attempted to alter. Even Jerome was not certain of the outcome with respect to the planet. He did calculate there was at least a chance of delaying a cataclysmic explosion for a few thousands of years, and that was good enough. Jerome also calculated a high probability of encouraging his fellow man to work together against a common enemy. He hoped and prayed that would be enough to distract people from the never-ending battles which were still the staple diet of the 5:00 news.</p>
            <p>The plan to tame the volcano was simple, but complex at the same time. The first need was for data. They had to discover all they could about what lay beneath the beautiful mountains and forests of Sumatra. The goal was to build up a three-dimensional, moving model of the earth's crust and mantle. Data for the model would be provided by placing sensors, thousands and thousands of them all around the planet and as deep within the earth as possible. Everything would have to be measured, movement, temperature, magnetism, pressure and dozens of other data points. Great computers would be built to analyse the data, computer scientists from around the globe would combine efforts to stitch the data together. The space race and arms race of the 60s led to many spin-off technologies and advancements. This effort would dwarf them both.</p>
            <p>All countries would contribute with he placement and monitoring of the earth within their borders. Sensors were put deep British coal mines, at the summits of the Alps and Andes, and sunk to the bottom of the deepest trenches in the Pacific. Data was sent to the Caribbean from all around the world every second of every day. Every minor tremor of the earth's crust was now providing data for the planetary model.</p>
            <p>Step two was to enhance the accuracy of the models by several orders of magnitude. This would be done by ending the reliance on naturally occurring earth tremors to provide data. It would be necessary to induce vibrations into the planet itself. Scientists and engineers would learn to control the timing, duration and size of massive the underground explosions necessary to chart the inner workings of the planet. This stage required years of digging, tunnelling, drilling and engaged the sorts of men that otherwise would likely be paid by governments and tribes be shooting at each other.</p>
            <p>The third stage of averting planetary destruction from the magma building pressure under South-East Asia would be the most ambitious stage by far. Preliminary results encouraged Jerome's theory that mankind would not need to engage the forces of planet earth in back street brawl which man would surely lose. His plan was to nudge continually and coerce the earth in a less destructive direction. This, he hypothesised could be done with an explosion here, movement of a mountain there and digging of a series of geothermal vents. This would be an ongoing job, continuing for decades to come.</p>
    <p class="centered">~~~~~~~~~~~~~~</p>
            <h2>Spiritual</h2>
            <p>The engineering work in the depths of the earth would continue for decades, but the planet seemed to be holding fire so far. Perhaps she was curious what the humans would do next?</p>
            <p>The gargantuan engineering project to tame the super-volcano masterminded by Jerome gave the governments of earth had a common enemy on which to focus their efforts rather than fighting among themselves. The United Nations, finally found something to unite against giving the institution a valid reason to exist. A veil of peace spread over the domain of men. Slowly, month by month and year upon year peace became the norm, a habit.</p>
            <p>Having guided his fellow men toward peace Jerome was now pleased to listen to the news broadcasts on the radio. When he walked the beaches of his island home, his thoughts returned to his childhood and thoughts of all those others on similar beaches around the great Atlantic ocean. He was separated from them by so far, yet also so little.</p>
            <p>Jerome then left the fields of geology, science, and engineering. The wheels he had set in motion regarding the volcano would continue turning without him.</p>
            <p>Jerome visited all the world's top religious leaders. Jerome was gathering data, collecting ideas for his next challenge.</p>
            <p>Then he then vanished.</p>
    <p class="centered">~~~~~~~~~~~~~~</p>
            <h2>Travelling</h2>
            <p>Following his talks with leaders of many religions, he took the life of a hermit monk. He lived on a sparsely inhabited island in Pugeot Sound near Seattle. Here, the whales and eagles taught him humility and respect for nature. As the months wore on he discovered a new layer to the rich fabric of the universe. His channelled his genius into the spiritual realm where he developed methods that put him in touch with people, not of his home planet. These were not aliens from outer space, but people like him with names like Hector, Marnie, Matt and many others. Jerome learned to travel among the many universes which surround us all. More than that, he found that without trying he often materialise, to those with minds open to see him, when they needed him the most.</p>
            <p>Jerome had created peace in his universe and staved off a cataclysmic global event. He had found a way to &#8220;make a difference in the world and to change something.&#8221; Now, he was learning the art of communicating with people across endless oceans and universes, he could now help others, like Marnie, to do the same.</p>
            <p><br/><br/></p>
            <p>THE END</p>
</section></body></html>