<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title></title><link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/epub-stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
  <div id="h2-2">
    <h1>Chapter 2<br/>The Second Chapter</h1>
  </div>
</header>
<p class="chapterIntro">This will be a fabulous chapter.</p>
<p><br/></p>
            <p>The previous day.</p>
            <p>&#8220;I am a useless waste of space. I haven't done anything of any value in my whole life.&#8221;</p>
            <p>&#8220;You're only 15&#8221; replied Marnie's twin brother Matt. The twins were in their father's physics lab supposedly doing their homework. Matt's was to discuss the mathematical complexities of Chaucer's &#8216;Rhyme Royal&#8217; Style. He was armed for homework with just one poetry book, a ballpoint pen and an envelope which sat in his back pocket. The envelope was empty. Its sole value was that it had quite a bit of white space on the front and back on which to scribble notes, should he feel the need. The assignment was a special task given only to Matt. In a spiteful moment, Marnie had convinced Matt's teachers that he was a gifted genius who never needed to study to get top marks on his school assignments. The result was that the teachers gave him harder and harder tasks. They graded his papers with the gusto and enthusiasm reserved for their best pupils thinking the extra push would help him achieve academic greatness. Matt quickly guessed that Marnie was somehow behind this &#8220;special learning experience&#8221; that had been set for him.</p>
            <p>For her maths homework, Marnie was armed with five books, four recently sharpened pink &#8220;Hello Kitty&#8221; pencils, two calculators and a spiral notebook sporting the words &#8216;1970s Style Laptop&#8217; on the front cover. Her homework planner notebook had the name Margaret in big letters across the front. Matt had written that knowing how much his sister disliked her real name. Her parents had named her after Margaret Burbidge, an astrophysicist that worked at Cavendish Labs in the 1950's. She figured out how heavy galaxies are among other things. Marnie thought that was all very nice, bet she never liked the name.</p>
            <p>Matt watched her for a moment. Some of the boys at school thought Marnie was &#8220;hot.&#8221; Matt might have agreed if she hadn't been his sister. She was tall, slender, athletic, had good posture and flaming red hair. In a fit of devilment and revenge Matt told his friends that Marnie was a lesbian. This rumour successfully made the rounds at school. Marnie would have trouble getting getting a boyfriend.</p>
            <p>Marnie removed her headphones before speaking this time. Matt knew she was serious when she no longer had wires leading from her pocket to her ears. &#8220;What makes you think the next 15 years are going to be any more productive for me than the last? Apparently we humans learn just about everything important we will ever learn by the age of five. Our most creative years are now behind us Matt. Before you know it we'll be twenty and you know it's all downhill towards the grave from there.&#8221;</p>
            <p>The small attic room that their father Hector had been allocated by the university physics department was barely big enough to be called a laboratory, but Hector had made good use of the space. It was located atop the old Cavendish Laboratory in the centre of Cambridge. The atmosphere was conducive to studying and Matt and Marnie preferred it to the library or their bedrooms. Hector had just gone out to buy some bits of hardware he needed to repair one of the ancient pieces of equipment he had scavenged from real labs in other parts of the building.</p>
            <p>&#8220;I just want to make a difference in the world&#8221; reiterated Marnie. &#8220;I want to change something, anything, otherwise what is the point of using up all this oxygen every day? I need to do something useful to counter my carbon footprint or I'm just another global statistic aren't I?&#8221;</p>
            <p>&#8220;What would you change then?&#8221; asked Matt.</p>
            <p>Marnie looked out of the small attic window at the many bicycles parked on the street below.</p>
            <p>&#8220;I'd change anything, I'd let the air out of someone's bike tyres. Who knows, that might cause the owner to invent a fantastic new form of transport.&#8221;</p>
            <p>&#8220;That's just vandalism, hardly a contribution to the global good.&#8221;</p>
            <p>&#8220;OK, you're right&#8221; conceded Marnie. &#8220;I'll invent something super myself, but what? No, it has to be something, right here, right now. I'm going to make a change now, any change to the world, I'll &#8230;"</p>
            <p>Matt interrupted, &#8220;How about picking up your bag of dirty gym kit off the floor before Dad trips on it and yells at us again? Or, you could actually do some homework instead of just talking about it. That would be different.&#8221;</p>
            <p>&#8220;Don't be so lame. I'm going to &#8230;&#8221; Marnie looked around her father's physics lab. She saw her father's current project. The equipment looked like something left over from the first Apollo space mission of 1969. It took up an entire corner of the small lab and consisted of a desk upon which sat something like a giant pressure cooker, a TV screen from before the days of colour, and row upon row of dials and switches. Despite all that it probably had less computing power than their Uncle Rob's latest new mobile phone.</p>
            <p>&#8220;I'm going to help with Dad's experiment by fixing the settings on all these dials and stuff. That will help. Dad said it wasn't working. The worst that can happen is that it still won't work. On the other hand, I might fix it, I could change the world! That's it, I am going to do a random act of improvement every day. By the time we are 30 at least one of those acts will have really, really changed the world for the better. Yes, that's it, my plan is now in action.&#8221;</p>
            <p>Marnie started fiddling with the controls on the equipment, changing settings of the dials and switches.</p>
            <p>&#8220;Marnie, stop messing with that,&#8221; said Matt looking up from his poetry book. &#8220;You don't know what effect that might have on Dad's experiments.&#8221;</p>
            <p>&#8220;That is the whole point. I just might do something. I've had enough of studying, preparing, wondering what I'll do when I grow up. I'm doing it now.&#8221;</p>
            <p>Marnie changed settings on various dials, Matt then tried to put them back as they were. After several minutes of this, both stepped back from the apparatus unsure of what they had done.</p>
    <p class="centered">~~~~~~~~~~~~~~</p>
            <p>The next day Hector went to work as usual in his curious old lab. Since 1874 when the Cavendish labs were established no less than twenty-nine Nobel Prizes had been awarded to scientists working in this and the surrounding buildings. Hector kept a picture of James Maxwell the mathematician and physicist on his messy desk. He told his children to always say &#8220;hello&#8221; to James when they entered the lab and to say &#8220;goodbye&#8221; to him when they left. Maxwell was the first to demonstrate that electricity, magnetism, and light are all different manifestations of the same thing and he had opened this very lab. Maxwell was Scottish like Hector. It is said that Albert Einstein kept a photo of Maxwell on his desk, too. Hector liked it that Marnie and Matt were always polite to the old guy.</p>
            <p>The success of the Cavendish labs had inevitably led to much growth. Researchers and scientists from all over the world clamoured to work in the quaint and esoteric hodgepodge of rooms crammed into the centre of Cambridge. Sadly there was simply not enough floor space and the university made the difficult decision to move to new and larger premises to the west of the city. Hector refused to move to the new site. In the old labs, he said he could feel the presence of the masters who had done great work there. A compromise had been reached with the university. He could keep the attic room while the rest of the buildings were put to other uses. Hector came to love the arrangement. It gave him a calm environment away from the sometimes mad circus of research establishments.</p>
            <p>The day after Marnie decided to make her mark on the world, Hector entered his lab through the normal door and left it by oscillating sideways into another universe.</p>
    <p class="centered">~~~~~~~~~~~~~~</p>
            <p>&#8220;Mum actually sent a text.&#8221; Marnie and Matt were walking home from school the day after their dad went missing. They had both received the same message from their mother, Sylvia. It read: &#8220;Family meeting in the Eagle Pub, 6:00 p.m. sharp!&#8221;</p>
            <p>&#8220;She must be really worried about Dad.&#8221; said Matt, &#8220;Mum's never this direct and commanding, on the other hand, she hates texting so she's hardly going to waste thumb strokes on polite banter.&#8221; Like her husband, Sylvia was an academic at Cambridge University. She was working on a book on historical aspects of anthropology.</p>
            <p>The Eagle pub was down a small lane and across the street from the lab. According to the sign outside, the pub was established in 1525. The sign also stated:</p>
            <p class="simulate_blockquote">'During their research in DNA in the early 1950s, Watson and Crick used the Eagle as a place to relax and discuss their theories whilst refreshing themselves with ale.&#8217;</p>
            <p><br/></p>
            <p>Hector and his fellow scientists often used the pub in exactly the same way.</p>
            <p>Marnie, Uncle Rob and Matt assembled at a small table in the pub garden well before the appointed time. Matt's chair was an example of a classic iron garden variety, very straight backed and in need of a cushion. Even at 15 years old Matt had been to this pub many times with his family and so he already had a photograph of this chair in his collection. Matt collected seats and chairs. Some people collect coins, stamps or dolls. Matt collected things that could be sat on. He photographed them, made notes about them, and perched on them. He found it somehow comforting that although all humans have pretty much the same need to get off their feet from time to time, there were so many ways of doing so.</p>
            <p>Sylvia strode into the pub garden, spotted Matt, Marnie and her younger brother Rob and went straight to them. She didn't even stop at the bar for her usual large dry white wine. &#8220;I have spoken to five departments of the Cambridgeshire police, called Addenbrooke's and three other nearby hospitals. I've sent texts and emails to twenty of Hector's friends and colleagues. Nobody has seen him since you did Rob. That was nearly twenty-four hours ago. Rob, go through your story again. I might just believe you this time. But, if this turns out to be one of your jokes, like when we were kids, you will be so very, very sorry!&#8221;</p>
            <p>Thirty-three year old Rob began to fidget. Marnie and Matt exchanged a nervous glance. Sylvia stared waiting for Rob to retell the events from when he last saw Hector. &#8220;He was testing the DNA modulator yesterday. Nothing was going right. &#8220;Gremlins in the machine&#8221; Hector kept saying.&#8221;</p>
            <p>&#8220;Wait a minute, what is the DNA modulator and what is it supposed to do?&#8221; said Marnie.</p>
            <p>&#8220;It is that big, ancient looking apparatus in the corner of the lab; the desk with dials, buttons and the screens. As I told you yesterday, we were working on a theory that human DNA oscillates at a specific frequency and that it is intertwined with vibrations of the universe we inhabit. The two patterns are so closely tied that changing one will change the other. The modulator attempts to alter human DNA vibrations.&#8221;</p>
            <p>Marnie kicked Matt under the table. &#8220;Are we supposed to know what that means?&#8221; she whispered"</p>
            <p>&#8220;Isn't altering your own DNA pretty dangerous?&#8221; Matt cut in.</p>
            <p>&#8220;The experiment was carefully controlled,&#8221; Rob continued. &#8220;We were gradually stepping up the power and measuring the effects. When we finished the day before yesterday, we were at five kilojoules which produced only two percent waveform distortion. Of course, there are so many variables to manipulate and consider. We were expecting to be at this for months trying different combinations. Anyway, I was working on a computer at one end of the lab with my back to Hector while he was running tests. After a while I noticed the lab was unusually quiet, I looked up and Hector wasn't there. He would have had to walk right past me to get to the door. As you know, there is only one small window in the lab, none of us could fit through it so he couldn't have gone out through the window. I worry that somehow he might have accidentally modulated his own DNA too much. If the theory is correct he might be in some sort of parallel universe or something.&#8221;</p>
            <p>Sylvia sat for a moment. &#8220;Was anything else gone from the lab?&#8221;</p>
            <p>Rob paused in thought, then his face went white. &#8220;We'd better go back to the lab and look.&#8221;</p>
            <p>The lab was only two hundred yards from the Eagle and the four of them were quickly heading down the street and up the three flights of narrow stone steps into Hector's dusty lab.</p>
    <p class="centered">~~~~~~~~~~~~~~</p>
            <p>Uncle Rob held up two polished silver objects. The first was similar to a walking stick or ski pole. The second was like a kind of Frisbee. &#8220;There should be two sets of these mobile DNA modulators, but I only see one.&#8221;</p>
            <p>&#8220;What do those do? Why should there be two sets of them?&#8221; asked Marnie.</p>
            <p>&#8220;They don't do anything on their own. They are controlled by a program Hector wrote just a few days ago. Hector and I both have a copy of the program on our tablet PCs.&#8221;</p>
            <p>Marnie stepped over and took the Frisbee device. &#8220;This seems odd, most of Dad's homemade instruments are cobbled together with duct tape and glue. These are slick and polished. I'd expect to see these in a modern art exhibition rather than here in Dad's lab. I wonder where he got these.&#8221;</p>
            <p>True enough, they were completely unlike any other equipment Hector had created in his many years of experiments. The polished steel stick and Frisbee were heavier than they looked, very solid and without visible buttons, dials or controls of any kind.</p>
            <p>Rob stared at the stick and Frisbee. The look on his face changing to reflect overwhelming concern for his brother-in-law and mentor. &#8220;Hector made these, they work together with the apparatus in the corner there. The stick is primarily a power source. The plate or Frisbee modulates DNA vibrations. Hector said they were like a life jacket and that we must never perform experiments on the modulator without having a set of these on us. I didn't take him seriously.&#8221;</p>
            <p>&#8220;What are you saying?&#8221; asked Marnie. &#8220;Do you think Dad has gone to some other universe with only a Frisbee and a ski pole to bring him back?&#8221;</p>
            <p>&#8220;I'm sure he didn't do it on purpose but that might be what has happened. The pole and Frisbee were only very theoretical and never tested. In fact, he only built them over the past few days. He worked on them like a man possessed.&#8221;</p>
            <p>Sylvia sat quietly on a stool, her chin resting on her hand. Marnie and Matt wandered to the other end of the lab. Marnie whispered, &#8220;Could your adjustments to the modulator apparatus thing have caused it all to go so badly wrong?&#8221;</p>
            <p>&#8220;YOUR fiddling with it almost certainly caused Dad to vanish to some unknown place,&#8221; Matt whispered harshly in response.</p>
            <p>Sylvia began pacing as Rob stood holding the silver stick and Frisbee or &#8216;mobile DNA modulator&#8217; as he referred to them. &#8220;OK Rob,&#8221; she said. &#8220;Let's assume that Hector accidentally modulated himself away to somewhere yesterday afternoon. Let's also assume that he would have modulated himself back here by now if he could. That means one of two things. Either he is out there somewhere and needs help to return, or&#8230;. well I can't contemplate the other alternative. Is there some way we could communicate with him or find a trace of where he went?&#8221;</p>
            <p>Rob thought for a few tense minutes, put down the stick and Frisbee and then checked some readings from the clunky modulator on the table. He then checked the old black and white TV screen attached to it. &#8220;These readings indicate a successful transfer of some sort, but I couldn't guess where to. I don't know how these theoretical other universes constructed of differently modulated DNA even work.&#8221;</p>
            <p>Sylvia looked at her brother for what seemed like minutes. Something was communicated between them as brother and sister in a way that Marnie and Matt had never accomplished. Without speaking Rob picked up the mobile modulator stick and Frisbee and put them carefully into his backpack along with his tablet PC. Returning to the modulator at the table, he studied the dials again.</p>
            <p>&#8216;Wait,&#8217; cried Marnie. &#8216;What are you doing? You are not going to turn that thing on are you?'</p>
            <p>Sylvia calmly stepped over to her children, &#8220;Rob knows what he is doing.&#8221; She said. &#8220;If Hector needs help Rob will bring him back to us.&#8221;</p>
            <p>&#8220;But, but&#8230; he can't&#8230;&#8221; Marnie attempted to protest.</p>
            <p>&#8220;If Dad is in some sort of trouble, won't Uncle Rob just be in the same trouble too?&#8221; Matt said. &#8220;How do we know he will be able to actually help?&#8221;</p>
            <p>Sylvia and Rob seemed to know something they weren't sharing. Marnie and Matt shared a secret too, about altering the settings on the modulator. They were too ashamed to admit to it.</p>
            <p>&#8220;Let me tell you about a discussion your dad and I had a couple of nights ago,&#8221; said Sylvia. &#8220;Hector was convinced that human DNA vibrations are powerful and link us to the universe we are in. Another piece of research is showing that when many humans focus their thoughts on the same goal the DNA modulations can combine as waves in the same pattern, adding more and more power. This effect has been known for centuries and has often been created by group prayer and other related activities. What is being discovered now is that the closer the DNA of the people involved, the more powerful the effect. A large family group all concentrating on the same thing can create a sort of tidal wave of DNA modulations. Hector hoped to be able to use that power somehow.&#8221;</p>
            <p>Marnie looked slightly perplexed and said, &#8220;So, you think that Uncle Rob and Dad together might have more than twice the power of just Dad on his own?&#8221;</p>
            <p>Matt didn't fully understand, &#8220;But, Uncle Rob and Dad are not blood relatives, doesn't that matter? Also, there are only two of them. Granted they are smart and all that, but one man and his brother-in-law hardly constitutes a large, closely related family group.&#8221;</p>
            <p>&#8220;We have to hope the two of them will be enough,&#8221; said Sylvia.</p>
            <p>Uncle Rob said, &#8220;We'll be fine. There is not a lot that Hector and I can't do when we put our minds to it. Also, I have the advantage of knowing I am about to go off to a different universe. Hector wouldn't have been expecting it.&#8221;</p>
            <p>Matt was about to explain about how Marnie had altered the settings when Uncle Rob hit an important looking button on the screen of the apparatus. Matt looked at Marnie, trying to guess what she was thinking.</p>
            <p>Matt was remembering how at the age of thirteen the two of them were given train tickets and dropped off at London's St Pancras Station with a backpack each and some spending money. They made their way to Geneva where Uncle Rob met them after attending a conference at the CERN particle physics laboratory.</p>
            <p>Matt also thought back to their seventh birthday when they were given a ride in a hot air balloon. They had a pilot of course, but mum and dad had stayed on the ground as the twins, barely able to see over the side of the wicker basket, rose up above their parent's heads and into the sky. The point was that their parents had always encouraged them to have adventures and take risks albeit calculated ones.</p>
            <p>Without a word Matt and Marnie both knew what they had to do. They had to go with Uncle Rob and find their father, the father they had sent to who knows where.</p>
            <p>&#8220;No!&#8221; shouted Sylvia as she watched her children dive at Uncle Rob and clutch his arms. &#8220;No, don't.&#8221; Sylvia's brother and children then vanished before her eyes.</p>
</section></body></html>